
We hear about quantum computers nearly every day in the news
and in the popular press.
That's what's exciting about quantum computing.
It's said that quantum computers will solve
certain types of problems.
Ones of tremendous importance to humankind,
and problems that today are practically prohibitive,
or maybe even impossible to solve with current computers.
We hear about pharmaceuticals and drug discovery.
Gaining a better understanding of new materials
like high-temperature superconductors
and how they work.
New methods for machine learning,
artificial intelligence, optimization problems,
financial services in technology.
Quantum computers will even challenge and change
the way we securely communicate information.
It certainly sounds like a fantastic and exciting future.
Which leads us to a few fundamental questions.
What exactly is a quantum computer,
and what's it good for?
More importantly, when will we have one?

Quantum computers are not just smaller, faster versions
of classical computers.
They're fundamentally different.
Whereas in the digital computer world, a bit,
which is one basic element of information,
is a zero, or a one.
Nothing else.
In a quantum computer, you can have a quantum bit, or qubit,
that's in a superposition of 0 and 1.
We can design it, we can actually control it.
We're actually engineering and manipulating quantum mechanics.
So, when we'll have a quantum computer
is a very interesting and nuanced question.
And the answer will, therefore, be kind of finnicky.
We've been saying quantum computers are 10 years away.
We've been saying that for decades.
Depending on your definition, we already have quantum computers,
they're just small.
Within my lifetime, I believe, and I won't say how old I am.
This is not decades away or 100 years away.
That quantum age has now come.
Quantum computers aren't simply faster,
smaller versions of the conventional computers
we have today.
Nor are they another incremental step
in the evolution of Moore's Law.
Rather, quantum computers represent a new, fundamentally
different computing paradigm.
One that carries tremendous advantage
for certain types of problems of importance.
Quantum computing could really transform industries
where there are significant optimization problems.
You've got a lot of discrete or binary decisions
to make to figure out, do you do this first, or that first.
This is where we shine.
Another way to understand the difference
between classical and quantum computers
is if you look at quantum systems of quantum simulation.
The quantum processor is a suitable tool for modeling
other quantum systems.
Biomolecule systems-- tons of systems that we use,
material systems--
work based on those quantum mechanical properties.
You kind of need a quantum machine in order
to simulate quantum effects.
When we can manipulate individual molecules
and understand what's going on in those molecules--
how they bond--
then we'll be able to have a really good handle
on generating new things, and novel materials that
might be very useful.
Still, we're just at the very beginning of quantum computing
development.
Assembling and testing the first prototype processors.
It's a bit like being in the 1950s
at the dawn of transistor-based computing.
And, just as integrated circuits led to an information
processing revolution last century,
driving economic growth and productivity,
many people today believe that quantum computing will have
a similar impact this century.
Quantum computing and quantum algorithms
present fundamentally new programming and algorithm
design paradigms.
How do we fundamentally unlock new ideas in computing?
We're still learning a lot about how
to improve the individual components,
as well as connect them together.
That's part of the fun.
That's why I'm there to see what can we
do to enable the increased complexity and functionality
of these qubits.
We're really here at the very beginning.
And I just find that tremendously exciting.
Our goal here is to separate the promise from the hype.
To help leaders in business, government, and technology
understand the basics of how a quantum computer works,
and its applications.
We’ll begin by focusing on those basics.
What is a quantum computer?
How are quantum computers different
than conventional computers?
What types of problems are hard for classical computers,
but can be efficiently solved on a quantum computer?
When can we expect a quantum computer,
and what might it look like?
We'll even get a chance to run an algorithm on a real quantum
computer.
In answering these questions, we'll
be laying the groundwork for a deeper dive
into quantum algorithms and applications,
including cybersecurity, optimization,
quantum simulation, and more.
